Getting the Files
================

All the OSSEC HIDS files needed for installation to any operating system are available at the
www.ossec.net/files/ Web site. There are three files of interest to us: the main source tar file, the
Windows agent installer, and the checksum file.

The main source tar file contains the complete source code for the OSSEC HIDS, including
the Windows agent code. Because Unix- and Linux-based operating systems provide complete
development tools, the main source tar file contains everything needed to install the OSSEC
HIDS. For Microsoft Windows, the installation is more complex and development tools are not
readily available to build the OSSEC HIDS software. Because no development tools are available,
an executable, GUI-based installer is provided that installs a precompiled OSSEC HIDS service.
The third file is a checksum file used to validate the integrity of the downloaded files.

From the following URLs, download the main source tar file, the Windows agent installer,
and the checksum files, using a browser or command-line utility such as wget:
■ www.ossec.net/files/ossec-hids-1.4.tar.gz
■ www.ossec.net/files/ossec-agent-win32-1.4.exe
■ www.ossec.net/files/ossec-hids-1.4_checksum.txt

The checksums are provided to ensure the integrity of the downloaded files and allow
you to check for file corruption or unintentional modification. If these checks fail, you will
have to try the download again. From the command line, change to the directory where you
saved the downloaded files and verify the checksums.
# md5sum -c ossec-hids-1.4_checksum.txt
ossec-hids-1.4.tar.gz: OK
ossec-agent-win32-1.4.exe: OK
