Performing Local Installation
=========

Local installations can only be done on Linux- and BSD-based operating systems, including
Mac OS X. Start by choosing local installation in step 1 and then a directory location in
step 2. The defaults are shown in square braces and can be accepted by pressing Enter or
customized as in the case where we have chosen /opt/ossec instead of /var/ossec.

ͼ

Step 3, and the corresponding substeps, deal with notifications and alerts. At this point,
you must decide which features you want to enable. You can alter any of the choices later in
the ossec.conf file or by reinstalling the OSSEC HIDS.


The OSSEC HIDS communicates alert conditions that require your attention through
email. You should specify an email address you check frequently. The sooner you are aware
of a new threat, the sooner you can respond before it becomes a major problem.

ͼ

The integrity check daemon is responsible for monitoring and reporting changes in system
files. The rootkit detection engine regularly performs tests looking for evidence of an installed
rootkit. Careful configuration of both services provides granular protection or notification of
illicit file modifications, hidden network port activity, and other evidence of intrusion.
The details of configuration and rule-tuning are addressed in later chapters. These features are
very important for most HIDS solutions and should be enabled.

ͼ


Active response is a very powerful tool for taking automated actions to prevent intrusion
or to reduce the extent of an intrusion. Often, an active response will block invasive activity
much more quickly than you or your attacker can respond. If misconfigured, however, the active
response can also lock you out of your system or interrupt vital services. By default, the OSSEC
HIDS active response is quite safe and we recommend enabling it. Be sure, however, to have at
least one or two well-trusted IP addresses in the white list so you can always access the system.

ͼ

ͼ

After you press Enter, the OSSEC HIDS is compiled, installed, and configured with the
options you specified. When the installation is complete, the installer script provides you with some
final information.You should make note of the information and take any recommended actions.
Typically, any platform-specific steps needed to make the OSSEC HIDS operate fully are provided.
For example, for the OSSEC HIDS to use the OpenBSD pf firewall, some lines must be added
to the /etc/pf.conf script. The lines and instructions are provided in the final information.

Now that the install is complete, we can start the OSSEC HIDS service by running the
following command:
# /opt/ossec/bin/ossec-control start
Of course, with the initial configuration created by the installation script, the OSSEC HIDS
might not do much for you just yet. In the next chapter, we cover altering the configuration
to better suit your environment. With just a little more work, the OSSEC HIDS will become
a powerful defensive tool against the invading hordes.








