Installing the Server
=======

As with the local install type, server installations can only be done on Linux- and BSD-based
operating systems, including Mac OS X. After the initial screen and language selection, we start by
choosing server installation in step 1 and then a directory location in step 2. Defaults are shown in
square braces and can be accepted by pressing Enter, or customized similar to the following:

1- What kind of installation do you want (server, agent, local or help)? server
- Server installation chosen.
2- Setting up the installation environment.
- Choose where to install the OSSEC HIDS [/var/ossec]: /var/ossec
- Installation will be made at /var/ossec .

Step 3, and the corresponding sub steps, deal with notifications and alerts. At this point,
you must decide which features you want to enable. You can alter any of the choices later in
the ossec.conf file or by reinstalling the OSSEC HIDS.

这差很多

After you press Enter, the OSSEC HIDS is compiled, installed, and configured with the
options you specified. When the installation is complete, the installer script provides you with
some final information.You should make note of the information and take any recommended
actions. For example, for the OSSEC HIDS to use the OpenBSD pf firewall, a few lines
must be added to the /etc/pf.conf.


You now have a working server installation of the OSSEC HIDS. All binaries, scripts, and
configurations for the OSSEC HIDS are in the installation directory you specified. To verify
that everything is ok, start the OSSEC HIDS and complete the installation.

# /opt/ossec/bin/ossec-control start
Before moving on to setting up agents, remember that the OSSEC HIDS server needs
to receive communication from agents on port 1514 and possibly 514. You must ensure that
the firewall or packet filter on the server host machine allows this traffic. Each operating system
and software distribution provides a way to do this. You must enable inbound UDP traffic
on ports 1514 and 514 from any subnets where agents are installed. The firewall rule must
maintain connection state because the agent expects responses from the server.















