Managing Agents
=======

Managing Agents

Before moving on to another install type, let’s review the key management in the OSSEC
HIDS. Agents must be able to identify themselves to the server, and the server must be able
to validate the identity of the agent. This ensures that illicit messages aren’t processed by the
server when sent from non-agent hosts.

The server-agent traffic is encrypted and validated using pre-shared keys. These keys
must be generated on the server and then imported on the agent side. The procedure is the
same regardless of the agent platform. All agent key management is done using the manage_agents
utility in the OSSEC HIDS bin directory.

You must create a key for each agent by adding the agent using the manage_agents utility.
Run the utility and then choose Add an agent by entering A.

图

You are prompted for host details and an identifier for the agent. The IP address, not the
hostname, of the agent host must be provided. The ID can be any number you choose, but it
must be numeric. The name can be any identifying text that is meaningful to you, without
spaces, but typically it makes most sense to use the hostname.

图+差很多


Repeat this procedure for each agent you must install. After you are done creating keys,
restart the OSSEC HIDS service, using /var/ossec/bin/ossec-control, so that the OSSEC
HIDS can read the updated keys and permitted agent IP addresses. Failure to restart the
OSSEC HIDS server might result in connection failures for the agents. After the OSSEC
HIDS software is installed on the agents, you will return to the server to retrieve the keys
for each agent using the same manage_agents utility.




